العودة إلى الموقع
Noble Quran » English - Sahih International » Sorah Al-Qalam ( The Pen )
English - Sahih International
Sorah Al-Qalam ( The Pen ) - Verses Number 52
ن ۚ وَالْقَلَمِ وَمَا يَسْطُرُونَ ( 1 )
Nun. By the pen and what they inscribe,
مَا أَنتَ بِنِعْمَةِ رَبِّكَ بِمَجْنُونٍ ( 2 )
You are not, [O Muhammad], by the favor of your Lord, a madman.
وَإِنَّ لَكَ لَأَجْرًا غَيْرَ مَمْنُونٍ ( 3 )
And indeed, for you is a reward uninterrupted.
وَإِنَّكَ لَعَلَىٰ خُلُقٍ عَظِيمٍ ( 4 )
And indeed, you are of a great moral character.
فَسَتُبْصِرُ وَيُبْصِرُونَ ( 5 )
So you will see and they will see
بِأَييِّكُمُ الْمَفْتُونُ ( 6 )
Which of you is the afflicted [by a devil].
إِنَّ رَبَّكَ هُوَ أَعْلَمُ بِمَن ضَلَّ عَن سَبِيلِهِ وَهُوَ أَعْلَمُ بِالْمُهْتَدِينَ ( 7 )
Indeed, your Lord is most knowing of who has gone astray from His way, and He is most knowing of the [rightly] guided.
فَلَا تُطِعِ الْمُكَذِّبِينَ ( 8 )
Then do not obey the deniers.
وَدُّوا لَوْ تُدْهِنُ فَيُدْهِنُونَ ( 9 )
They wish that you would soften [in your position], so they would soften [toward you].
وَلَا تُطِعْ كُلَّ حَلَّافٍ مَّهِينٍ ( 10 )
And do not obey every worthless habitual swearer
هَمَّازٍ مَّشَّاءٍ بِنَمِيمٍ ( 11 )
[And] scorner, going about with malicious gossip -
مَّنَّاعٍ لِّلْخَيْرِ مُعْتَدٍ أَثِيمٍ ( 12 )
A preventer of good, transgressing and sinful,
عُتُلٍّ بَعْدَ ذَٰلِكَ زَنِيمٍ ( 13 )
Cruel, moreover, and an illegitimate pretender.
أَن كَانَ ذَا مَالٍ وَبَنِينَ ( 14 )
Because he is a possessor of wealth and children,
إِذَا تُتْلَىٰ عَلَيْهِ آيَاتُنَا قَالَ أَسَاطِيرُ الْأَوَّلِينَ ( 15 )
When Our verses are recited to him, he says, "Legends of the former peoples."
سَنَسِمُهُ عَلَى الْخُرْطُومِ ( 16 )
We will brand him upon the snout.
إِنَّا بَلَوْنَاهُمْ كَمَا بَلَوْنَا أَصْحَابَ الْجَنَّةِ إِذْ أَقْسَمُوا لَيَصْرِمُنَّهَا مُصْبِحِينَ ( 17 )
Indeed, We have tried them as We tried the companions of the garden, when they swore to cut its fruit in the [early] morning
وَلَا يَسْتَثْنُونَ ( 18 )
Without making exception.
فَطَافَ عَلَيْهَا طَائِفٌ مِّن رَّبِّكَ وَهُمْ نَائِمُونَ ( 19 )
So there came upon the garden an affliction from your Lord while they were asleep.
فَأَصْبَحَتْ كَالصَّرِيمِ ( 20 )
And it became as though reaped.
فَتَنَادَوْا مُصْبِحِينَ ( 21 )
And they called one another at morning,
أَنِ اغْدُوا عَلَىٰ حَرْثِكُمْ إِن كُنتُمْ صَارِمِينَ ( 22 )
[Saying], "Go early to your crop if you would cut the fruit."
فَانطَلَقُوا وَهُمْ يَتَخَافَتُونَ ( 23 )
So they set out, while lowering their voices,
أَن لَّا يَدْخُلَنَّهَا الْيَوْمَ عَلَيْكُم مِّسْكِينٌ ( 24 )
[Saying], "There will surely not enter it today upon you [any] poor person."
وَغَدَوْا عَلَىٰ حَرْدٍ قَادِرِينَ ( 25 )
And they went early in determination, [assuming themselves] able.
فَلَمَّا رَأَوْهَا قَالُوا إِنَّا لَضَالُّونَ ( 26 )
But when they saw it, they said, "Indeed, we are lost;
بَلْ نَحْنُ مَحْرُومُونَ ( 27 )
Rather, we have been deprived."
قَالَ أَوْسَطُهُمْ أَلَمْ أَقُل لَّكُمْ لَوْلَا تُسَبِّحُونَ ( 28 )
The most moderate of them said, "Did I not say to you, 'Why do you not exalt [Allah]?' "
قَالُوا سُبْحَانَ رَبِّنَا إِنَّا كُنَّا ظَالِمِينَ ( 29 )
They said, "Exalted is our Lord! Indeed, we were wrongdoers."
فَأَقْبَلَ بَعْضُهُمْ عَلَىٰ بَعْضٍ يَتَلَاوَمُونَ ( 30 )
Then they approached one another, blaming each other.
قَالُوا يَا وَيْلَنَا إِنَّا كُنَّا طَاغِينَ ( 31 )
They said, "O woe to us; indeed we were transgressors.
عَسَىٰ رَبُّنَا أَن يُبْدِلَنَا خَيْرًا مِّنْهَا إِنَّا إِلَىٰ رَبِّنَا رَاغِبُونَ ( 32 )
Perhaps our Lord will substitute for us [one] better than it. Indeed, we are toward our Lord desirous."
كَذَٰلِكَ الْعَذَابُ ۖ وَلَعَذَابُ الْآخِرَةِ أَكْبَرُ ۚ لَوْ كَانُوا يَعْلَمُونَ ( 33 )
Such is the punishment [of this world]. And the punishment of the Hereafter is greater, if they only knew.
إِنَّ لِلْمُتَّقِينَ عِندَ رَبِّهِمْ جَنَّاتِ النَّعِيمِ ( 34 )
Indeed, for the righteous with their Lord are the Gardens of Pleasure.
أَفَنَجْعَلُ الْمُسْلِمِينَ كَالْمُجْرِمِينَ ( 35 )
Then will We treat the Muslims like the criminals?
مَا لَكُمْ كَيْفَ تَحْكُمُونَ ( 36 )
What is [the matter] with you? How do you judge?
أَمْ لَكُمْ كِتَابٌ فِيهِ تَدْرُسُونَ ( 37 )
Or do you have a scripture in which you learn
إِنَّ لَكُمْ فِيهِ لَمَا تَخَيَّرُونَ ( 38 )
That indeed for you is whatever you choose?
أَمْ لَكُمْ أَيْمَانٌ عَلَيْنَا بَالِغَةٌ إِلَىٰ يَوْمِ الْقِيَامَةِ ۙ إِنَّ لَكُمْ لَمَا تَحْكُمُونَ ( 39 )
Or do you have oaths [binding] upon Us, extending until the Day of Resurrection, that indeed for you is whatever you judge?
سَلْهُمْ أَيُّهُم بِذَٰلِكَ زَعِيمٌ ( 40 )
Ask them which of them, for that [claim], is responsible.
أَمْ لَهُمْ شُرَكَاءُ فَلْيَأْتُوا بِشُرَكَائِهِمْ إِن كَانُوا صَادِقِينَ ( 41 )
Or do they have partners? Then let them bring their partners, if they should be truthful.
يَوْمَ يُكْشَفُ عَن سَاقٍ وَيُدْعَوْنَ إِلَى السُّجُودِ فَلَا يَسْتَطِيعُونَ ( 42 )
The Day the shin will be uncovered and they are invited to prostration but the disbelievers will not be able,
خَاشِعَةً أَبْصَارُهُمْ تَرْهَقُهُمْ ذِلَّةٌ ۖ وَقَدْ كَانُوا يُدْعَوْنَ إِلَى السُّجُودِ وَهُمْ سَالِمُونَ ( 43 )
Their eyes humbled, humiliation will cover them. And they used to be invited to prostration while they were sound.
فَذَرْنِي وَمَن يُكَذِّبُ بِهَٰذَا الْحَدِيثِ ۖ سَنَسْتَدْرِجُهُم مِّنْ حَيْثُ لَا يَعْلَمُونَ ( 44 )
So leave Me, [O Muhammad], with [the matter of] whoever denies the Qur'an. We will progressively lead them [to punishment] from where they do not know.
وَأُمْلِي لَهُمْ ۚ إِنَّ كَيْدِي مَتِينٌ ( 45 )
And I will give them time. Indeed, My plan is firm.
أَمْ تَسْأَلُهُمْ أَجْرًا فَهُم مِّن مَّغْرَمٍ مُّثْقَلُونَ ( 46 )
Or do you ask of them a payment, so they are by debt burdened down?
أَمْ عِندَهُمُ الْغَيْبُ فَهُمْ يَكْتُبُونَ ( 47 )
Or have they [knowledge of] the unseen, so they write [it] down?
فَاصْبِرْ لِحُكْمِ رَبِّكَ وَلَا تَكُن كَصَاحِبِ الْحُوتِ إِذْ نَادَىٰ وَهُوَ مَكْظُومٌ ( 48 )
Then be patient for the decision of your Lord, [O Muhammad], and be not like the companion of the fish when he called out while he was distressed.
لَّوْلَا أَن تَدَارَكَهُ نِعْمَةٌ مِّن رَّبِّهِ لَنُبِذَ بِالْعَرَاءِ وَهُوَ مَذْمُومٌ ( 49 )
If not that a favor from his Lord overtook him, he would have been thrown onto the naked shore while he was censured.
فَاجْتَبَاهُ رَبُّهُ فَجَعَلَهُ مِنَ الصَّالِحِينَ ( 50 )
And his Lord chose him and made him of the righteous.
وَإِن يَكَادُ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا لَيُزْلِقُونَكَ بِأَبْصَارِهِمْ لَمَّا سَمِعُوا الذِّكْرَ وَيَقُولُونَ إِنَّهُ لَمَجْنُونٌ ( 51 )
And indeed, those who disbelieve would almost make you slip with their eyes when they hear the message, and they say, "Indeed, he is mad."
وَمَا هُوَ إِلَّا ذِكْرٌ لِّلْعَالَمِينَ ( 52 )
But it is not except a reminder to the worlds.
Random Books
The Lofty Virtues of Ibn Taymiyyah By The Imam, the Hafidh Abu Hafs 'Umar bin 'Ali al-Bazzar. Translated By Abu Sabaayaa. “If I had to swear standing between the corner of the Ka'bah and the spot of Ibrahim, I would swear that I have not laid my two eyes on anyone like him, nor has he seen anyone as knowledgeable as himself.” - al-Hafidh adh-Dhahabi
Formation : Omer Bin Ali Al-Bazzar
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/229345
Download :
Understand the Qur'an For Elementary School Children Begin to learn and understand the Qur’an – the easy way! Understand Salah and improve your relationship with Allah; Learn basic Arabic grammar using a new powerful method of TPI; and Through these learn 125 words that occur in the Qur’an 40,000 times!
Formation : Abdul-Azeez Abdur-Raheem
Reveiwers : Muhammad AbdulRaoof
From issues : A website understand Quran www.understandquran.com
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/358865
Download :
Say as universe says Laa ilaaha illa Allaah Introduction to history of polytheism and monotheism: Allah (glory be to him) created all people as Muslims and monotheists but devils came to them and changed and distorted their religion. Allah said in a qudsi hadith, “I created all my slaves as haneefs (monotheists), but the devils came to them, made them deviate from their religion, forbade them that which I had permitted to them, and commanded them to join partners with me for which I has given no authority.” As soon as people commit a type of polytheism, Allah sends his prophets to call them to the suitable type of monotheism.
Formation : Ameen Al-Ansaari
From issues : A website Knowing Allah : http://knowingallah.com
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/370996
Download :
Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) A Blessing For Mankind This booklet tells us in a simple way about Prophet Muhammad PBUH’s birth, youth, marriage and the Prophethood. It also tells us about the new era mankind entered by the advent of Islam.
Reveiwers : Muhammad AbdulRaoof
From issues : International Islamic Publishing House
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/313868
Download :
My Lord, I Love You Have you ever tried in a moment of serenity to say sincerely, ‘I love you, my Lord?’ Have you ever uttered it from the bottom of your heart? . Claims like these are very easy to make, but the real question is: do the words truly spring from the bottom of your heart? Do you love Allah The Almighty wholeheartedly? Do you love Him in such a way that your love preoccupies you from anything other than Him?
Reveiwers : Muhammad AbdulRaoof
From issues : http://www.islamweb.net - Islam Web Website
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/353540
Download :
Choose language
Choose Sorah
1- Al-Fatihah ( The Opening )
2- Al-Baqarah ( The Cow )
3- Al-Imran ( The Famiy of Imran )
4- An-Nisa ( The Women )
5- Al-Maidah ( The Table spread with Food )
6- Al-An'am ( The Cattle )
7- Al-A'raf (The Heights )
8- Al-Anfal ( The Spoils of War )
9- At-Taubah ( The Repentance )
10- Yunus ( Jonah )
11- Hud
12- Yusuf (Joseph )
13- Ar-Ra'd ( The Thunder )
14- Ibrahim ( Abraham )
15- Al-Hijr ( The Rocky Tract )
16- An-Nahl ( The Bees )
17- Al-Isra ( The Night Journey )
18- Al-Kahf ( The Cave )
19- Maryam ( Mary )
20- Taha
21- Al-Anbiya ( The Prophets )
22- Al-Hajj ( The Pilgrimage )
23- Al-Mu'minoon ( The Believers )
24- An-Noor ( The Light )
25- Al-Furqan (The Criterion )
26- Ash-Shuara ( The Poets )
27- An-Naml (The Ants )
28- Al-Qasas ( The Stories )
29- Al-Ankaboot ( The Spider )
30- Ar-Room ( The Romans )
31- Luqman
32- As-Sajdah ( The Prostration )
33- Al-Ahzab ( The Combined Forces )
34- Saba ( Sheba )
35- Fatir ( The Orignator )
36- Ya-seen
37- As-Saaffat ( Those Ranges in Ranks )
38- Sad ( The Letter Sad )
39- Az-Zumar ( The Groups )
40- Ghafir ( The Forgiver God )
41- Fussilat ( Explained in Detail )
42- Ash-Shura (Consultation )
43- Az-Zukhruf ( The Gold Adornment )
44- Ad-Dukhan ( The Smoke )
45- Al-Jathiya ( Crouching )
46- Al-Ahqaf ( The Curved Sand-hills )
47- Muhammad
48- Al-Fath ( The Victory )
49- Al-Hujurat ( The Dwellings )
50- Qaf ( The Letter Qaf )
51- Adh-Dhariyat ( The Wind that Scatter )
52- At-Tur ( The Mount )
53- An-Najm ( The Star )
54- Al-Qamar ( The Moon )
55- Ar-Rahman ( The Most Graciouse )
56- Al-Waqi'ah ( The Event )
57- Al-Hadid ( The Iron )
58- Al-Mujadilah ( She That Disputeth )
59- Al-Hashr ( The Gathering )
60- Al-Mumtahanah ( The Woman to be examined )
61- As-Saff ( The Row )
62- Al-Jumu'ah ( Friday )
63- Al-Munafiqoon ( The Hypocrites )
64- At-Taghabun ( Mutual Loss & Gain )
65- At-Talaq ( The Divorce )
66- At-Tahrim ( The Prohibition )
67- Al-Mulk ( Dominion )
68- Al-Qalam ( The Pen )
69- Al-Haaqqah ( The Inevitable )
70- Al-Ma'arij (The Ways of Ascent )
71- Nooh
72- Al-Jinn ( The Jinn )
73- Al-Muzzammil (The One wrapped in Garments)
74- Al-Muddaththir ( The One Enveloped )
75- Al-Qiyamah ( The Resurrection )
76- Al-Insan ( Man )
77- Al-Mursalat ( Those sent forth )
78- An-Naba' ( The Great News )
79- An-Nazi'at ( Those who Pull Out )
80- Abasa ( He frowned )
81- At-Takwir ( The Overthrowing )
82- Al-Infitar ( The Cleaving )
83- Al-Mutaffifin (Those Who Deal in Fraud)
84- Al-Inshiqaq (The Splitting Asunder)
85- Al-Burooj ( The Big Stars )
86- At-Tariq ( The Night-Comer )
87- Al-A'la ( The Most High )
88- Al-Ghashiya ( The Overwhelming )
89- Al-Fajr ( The Dawn )
90- Al-Balad ( The City )
91- Ash-Shams ( The Sun )
92- Al-Layl ( The Night )
93- Ad-Dhuha ( The Forenoon )
94- As-Sharh ( The Opening Forth)
95- At-Tin ( The Fig )
96- Al-'alaq ( The Clot )
97- Al-Qadr ( The Night of Decree )
98- Al-Bayyinah ( The Clear Evidence )
99- Az-Zalzalah ( The Earthquake )
100- Al-'adiyat ( Those That Run )
101- Al-Qari'ah ( The Striking Hour )
102- At-Takathur ( The piling Up )
103- Al-Asr ( The Time )
104- Al-Humazah ( The Slanderer )
105- Al-Fil ( The Elephant )
106- Quraish
107- Al-Ma'un ( Small Kindnesses )
108- Al-Kauther ( A River in Paradise)
109- Al-Kafiroon ( The Disbelievers )
110- An-Nasr ( The Help )
111- Al-Masad ( The Palm Fibre )
112- Al-Ikhlas ( Sincerity )
113- Al-Falaq ( The Daybreak )
114- An-Nas ( Mankind )
Random Books
Religious Police in Saudi Arabia
Compassionate Among Themselves
The Call for the Unity of Religions: A False and Dangerous Call
The Ka'bah From the Prophet Ibrahim till Now
Fasting in Ramadan according to the Qur’an and the Authentic Sunnah
Choose tafseer
Tafseer Ibn Khatheer
Tafseer Aljlalin
Tafseer Altabari
Tafseer Alqurtubi
Tafseer Alsaadi
Participate
Powered by Quran For All version 1.2
