العودة إلى الموقع
Noble Quran » English - Sahih International » Sorah Al-Jathiya ( Crouching )
English - Sahih International
Sorah Al-Jathiya ( Crouching ) - Verses Number 37
حم ( 1 )
Ha, Meem.
تَنزِيلُ الْكِتَابِ مِنَ اللَّهِ الْعَزِيزِ الْحَكِيمِ ( 2 )
The revelation of the Book is from Allah, the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
إِنَّ فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ لَآيَاتٍ لِّلْمُؤْمِنِينَ ( 3 )
Indeed, within the heavens and earth are signs for the believers.
وَفِي خَلْقِكُمْ وَمَا يَبُثُّ مِن دَابَّةٍ آيَاتٌ لِّقَوْمٍ يُوقِنُونَ ( 4 )
And in the creation of yourselves and what He disperses of moving creatures are signs for people who are certain [in faith].
وَاخْتِلَافِ اللَّيْلِ وَالنَّهَارِ وَمَا أَنزَلَ اللَّهُ مِنَ السَّمَاءِ مِن رِّزْقٍ فَأَحْيَا بِهِ الْأَرْضَ بَعْدَ مَوْتِهَا وَتَصْرِيفِ الرِّيَاحِ آيَاتٌ لِّقَوْمٍ يَعْقِلُونَ ( 5 )
And [in] the alternation of night and day and [in] what Allah sends down from the sky of provision and gives life thereby to the earth after its lifelessness and [in His] directing of the winds are signs for a people who reason.
تِلْكَ آيَاتُ اللَّهِ نَتْلُوهَا عَلَيْكَ بِالْحَقِّ ۖ فَبِأَيِّ حَدِيثٍ بَعْدَ اللَّهِ وَآيَاتِهِ يُؤْمِنُونَ ( 6 )
These are the verses of Allah which We recite to you in truth. Then in what statement after Allah and His verses will they believe?
وَيْلٌ لِّكُلِّ أَفَّاكٍ أَثِيمٍ ( 7 )
Woe to every sinful liar
يَسْمَعُ آيَاتِ اللَّهِ تُتْلَىٰ عَلَيْهِ ثُمَّ يُصِرُّ مُسْتَكْبِرًا كَأَن لَّمْ يَسْمَعْهَا ۖ فَبَشِّرْهُ بِعَذَابٍ أَلِيمٍ ( 8 )
Who hears the verses of Allah recited to him, then persists arrogantly as if he had not heard them. So give him tidings of a painful punishment.
وَإِذَا عَلِمَ مِنْ آيَاتِنَا شَيْئًا اتَّخَذَهَا هُزُوًا ۚ أُولَٰئِكَ لَهُمْ عَذَابٌ مُّهِينٌ ( 9 )
And when he knows anything of Our verses, he takes them in ridicule. Those will have a humiliating punishment.
مِّن وَرَائِهِمْ جَهَنَّمُ ۖ وَلَا يُغْنِي عَنْهُم مَّا كَسَبُوا شَيْئًا وَلَا مَا اتَّخَذُوا مِن دُونِ اللَّهِ أَوْلِيَاءَ ۖ وَلَهُمْ عَذَابٌ عَظِيمٌ ( 10 )
Before them is Hell, and what they had earned will not avail them at all nor what they had taken besides Allah as allies. And they will have a great punishment.
هَٰذَا هُدًى ۖ وَالَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا بِآيَاتِ رَبِّهِمْ لَهُمْ عَذَابٌ مِّن رِّجْزٍ أَلِيمٌ ( 11 )
This [Qur'an] is guidance. And those who have disbelieved in the verses of their Lord will have a painful punishment of foul nature.
اللَّهُ الَّذِي سَخَّرَ لَكُمُ الْبَحْرَ لِتَجْرِيَ الْفُلْكُ فِيهِ بِأَمْرِهِ وَلِتَبْتَغُوا مِن فَضْلِهِ وَلَعَلَّكُمْ تَشْكُرُونَ ( 12 )
It is Allah who subjected to you the sea so that ships may sail upon it by His command and that you may seek of His bounty; and perhaps you will be grateful.
وَسَخَّرَ لَكُم مَّا فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَمَا فِي الْأَرْضِ جَمِيعًا مِّنْهُ ۚ إِنَّ فِي ذَٰلِكَ لَآيَاتٍ لِّقَوْمٍ يَتَفَكَّرُونَ ( 13 )
And He has subjected to you whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth - all from Him. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought.
قُل لِّلَّذِينَ آمَنُوا يَغْفِرُوا لِلَّذِينَ لَا يَرْجُونَ أَيَّامَ اللَّهِ لِيَجْزِيَ قَوْمًا بِمَا كَانُوا يَكْسِبُونَ ( 14 )
Say, [O Muhammad], to those who have believed that they [should] forgive those who expect not the days of Allah so that He may recompense a people for what they used to earn.
مَنْ عَمِلَ صَالِحًا فَلِنَفْسِهِ ۖ وَمَنْ أَسَاءَ فَعَلَيْهَا ۖ ثُمَّ إِلَىٰ رَبِّكُمْ تُرْجَعُونَ ( 15 )
Whoever does a good deed - it is for himself; and whoever does evil - it is against the self. Then to your Lord you will be returned.
وَلَقَدْ آتَيْنَا بَنِي إِسْرَائِيلَ الْكِتَابَ وَالْحُكْمَ وَالنُّبُوَّةَ وَرَزَقْنَاهُم مِّنَ الطَّيِّبَاتِ وَفَضَّلْنَاهُمْ عَلَى الْعَالَمِينَ ( 16 )
And We did certainly give the Children of Israel the Scripture and judgement and prophethood, and We provided them with good things and preferred them over the worlds.
وَآتَيْنَاهُم بَيِّنَاتٍ مِّنَ الْأَمْرِ ۖ فَمَا اخْتَلَفُوا إِلَّا مِن بَعْدِ مَا جَاءَهُمُ الْعِلْمُ بَغْيًا بَيْنَهُمْ ۚ إِنَّ رَبَّكَ يَقْضِي بَيْنَهُمْ يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ فِيمَا كَانُوا فِيهِ يَخْتَلِفُونَ ( 17 )
And We gave them clear proofs of the matter [of religion]. And they did not differ except after knowledge had come to them - out of jealous animosity between themselves. Indeed, your Lord will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection concerning that over which they used to differ.
ثُمَّ جَعَلْنَاكَ عَلَىٰ شَرِيعَةٍ مِّنَ الْأَمْرِ فَاتَّبِعْهَا وَلَا تَتَّبِعْ أَهْوَاءَ الَّذِينَ لَا يَعْلَمُونَ ( 18 )
Then We put you, [O Muhammad], on an ordained way concerning the matter [of religion]; so follow it and do not follow the inclinations of those who do not know.
إِنَّهُمْ لَن يُغْنُوا عَنكَ مِنَ اللَّهِ شَيْئًا ۚ وَإِنَّ الظَّالِمِينَ بَعْضُهُمْ أَوْلِيَاءُ بَعْضٍ ۖ وَاللَّهُ وَلِيُّ الْمُتَّقِينَ ( 19 )
Indeed, they will never avail you against Allah at all. And indeed, the wrongdoers are allies of one another; but Allah is the protector of the righteous.
هَٰذَا بَصَائِرُ لِلنَّاسِ وَهُدًى وَرَحْمَةٌ لِّقَوْمٍ يُوقِنُونَ ( 20 )
This [Qur'an] is enlightenment for mankind and guidance and mercy for a people who are certain [in faith].
أَمْ حَسِبَ الَّذِينَ اجْتَرَحُوا السَّيِّئَاتِ أَن نَّجْعَلَهُمْ كَالَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ سَوَاءً مَّحْيَاهُمْ وَمَمَاتُهُمْ ۚ سَاءَ مَا يَحْكُمُونَ ( 21 )
Or do those who commit evils think We will make them like those who have believed and done righteous deeds - [make them] equal in their life and their death? Evil is that which they judge.
وَخَلَقَ اللَّهُ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضَ بِالْحَقِّ وَلِتُجْزَىٰ كُلُّ نَفْسٍ بِمَا كَسَبَتْ وَهُمْ لَا يُظْلَمُونَ ( 22 )
And Allah created the heavens and earth in truth and so that every soul may be recompensed for what it has earned, and they will not be wronged.
أَفَرَأَيْتَ مَنِ اتَّخَذَ إِلَٰهَهُ هَوَاهُ وَأَضَلَّهُ اللَّهُ عَلَىٰ عِلْمٍ وَخَتَمَ عَلَىٰ سَمْعِهِ وَقَلْبِهِ وَجَعَلَ عَلَىٰ بَصَرِهِ غِشَاوَةً فَمَن يَهْدِيهِ مِن بَعْدِ اللَّهِ ۚ أَفَلَا تَذَكَّرُونَ ( 23 )
Have you seen he who has taken as his god his [own] desire, and Allah has sent him astray due to knowledge and has set a seal upon his hearing and his heart and put over his vision a veil? So who will guide him after Allah? Then will you not be reminded?
وَقَالُوا مَا هِيَ إِلَّا حَيَاتُنَا الدُّنْيَا نَمُوتُ وَنَحْيَا وَمَا يُهْلِكُنَا إِلَّا الدَّهْرُ ۚ وَمَا لَهُم بِذَٰلِكَ مِنْ عِلْمٍ ۖ إِنْ هُمْ إِلَّا يَظُنُّونَ ( 24 )
And they say, "There is not but our worldly life; we die and live, and nothing destroys us except time." And they have of that no knowledge; they are only assuming.
وَإِذَا تُتْلَىٰ عَلَيْهِمْ آيَاتُنَا بَيِّنَاتٍ مَّا كَانَ حُجَّتَهُمْ إِلَّا أَن قَالُوا ائْتُوا بِآبَائِنَا إِن كُنتُمْ صَادِقِينَ ( 25 )
And when Our verses are recited to them as clear evidences, their argument is only that they say, "Bring [back] our forefathers, if you should be truthful."
قُلِ اللَّهُ يُحْيِيكُمْ ثُمَّ يُمِيتُكُمْ ثُمَّ يَجْمَعُكُمْ إِلَىٰ يَوْمِ الْقِيَامَةِ لَا رَيْبَ فِيهِ وَلَٰكِنَّ أَكْثَرَ النَّاسِ لَا يَعْلَمُونَ ( 26 )
Say, "Allah causes you to live, then causes you to die; then He will assemble you for the Day of Resurrection, about which there is no doubt, but most of the people do not know."
وَلِلَّهِ مُلْكُ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ ۚ وَيَوْمَ تَقُومُ السَّاعَةُ يَوْمَئِذٍ يَخْسَرُ الْمُبْطِلُونَ ( 27 )
And to Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. And the Day the Hour appears - that Day the falsifiers will lose.
وَتَرَىٰ كُلَّ أُمَّةٍ جَاثِيَةً ۚ كُلُّ أُمَّةٍ تُدْعَىٰ إِلَىٰ كِتَابِهَا الْيَوْمَ تُجْزَوْنَ مَا كُنتُمْ تَعْمَلُونَ ( 28 )
And you will see every nation kneeling [from fear]. Every nation will be called to its record [and told], "Today you will be recompensed for what you used to do.
هَٰذَا كِتَابُنَا يَنطِقُ عَلَيْكُم بِالْحَقِّ ۚ إِنَّا كُنَّا نَسْتَنسِخُ مَا كُنتُمْ تَعْمَلُونَ ( 29 )
This, Our record, speaks about you in truth. Indeed, We were having transcribed whatever you used to do."
فَأَمَّا الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ فَيُدْخِلُهُمْ رَبُّهُمْ فِي رَحْمَتِهِ ۚ ذَٰلِكَ هُوَ الْفَوْزُ الْمُبِينُ ( 30 )
So as for those who believed and did righteous deeds, their Lord will admit them into His mercy. That is what is the clear attainment.
وَأَمَّا الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا أَفَلَمْ تَكُنْ آيَاتِي تُتْلَىٰ عَلَيْكُمْ فَاسْتَكْبَرْتُمْ وَكُنتُمْ قَوْمًا مُّجْرِمِينَ ( 31 )
But as for those who disbelieved, [it will be said], "Were not Our verses recited to you, but you were arrogant and became a people of criminals?
وَإِذَا قِيلَ إِنَّ وَعْدَ اللَّهِ حَقٌّ وَالسَّاعَةُ لَا رَيْبَ فِيهَا قُلْتُم مَّا نَدْرِي مَا السَّاعَةُ إِن نَّظُنُّ إِلَّا ظَنًّا وَمَا نَحْنُ بِمُسْتَيْقِنِينَ ( 32 )
And when it was said, 'Indeed, the promise of Allah is truth and the Hour [is coming] - no doubt about it,' you said, 'We know not what is the Hour. We assume only assumption, and we are not convinced.' "
وَبَدَا لَهُمْ سَيِّئَاتُ مَا عَمِلُوا وَحَاقَ بِهِم مَّا كَانُوا بِهِ يَسْتَهْزِئُونَ ( 33 )
And the evil consequences of what they did will appear to them, and they will be enveloped by what they used to ridicule.
وَقِيلَ الْيَوْمَ نَنسَاكُمْ كَمَا نَسِيتُمْ لِقَاءَ يَوْمِكُمْ هَٰذَا وَمَأْوَاكُمُ النَّارُ وَمَا لَكُم مِّن نَّاصِرِينَ ( 34 )
And it will be said, "Today We will forget you as you forgot the meeting of this Day of yours, and your refuge is the Fire, and for you there are no helpers.
ذَٰلِكُم بِأَنَّكُمُ اتَّخَذْتُمْ آيَاتِ اللَّهِ هُزُوًا وَغَرَّتْكُمُ الْحَيَاةُ الدُّنْيَا ۚ فَالْيَوْمَ لَا يُخْرَجُونَ مِنْهَا وَلَا هُمْ يُسْتَعْتَبُونَ ( 35 )
That is because you took the verses of Allah in ridicule, and worldly life deluded you." So that Day they will not be removed from it, nor will they be asked to appease [Allah].
فَلِلَّهِ الْحَمْدُ رَبِّ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَرَبِّ الْأَرْضِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ ( 36 )
Then, to Allah belongs [all] praise - Lord of the heavens and Lord of the earth, Lord of the worlds.
وَلَهُ الْكِبْرِيَاءُ فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ ۖ وَهُوَ الْعَزِيزُ الْحَكِيمُ ( 37 )
And to Him belongs [all] grandeur within the heavens and the earth, and He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
Random Books
General Precepts of Ahlus-Sunnah Wal Jamaa’ah Brief guide concerning the fundamentals of Islam.
Formation : Naasir Bin Abdulkarim al-Aql
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/1295
Download :
The Manners Of the Knowledge Seeker The Islamic knowledge is the legacy of a prophet, the scholars are heirs of the prophets, and this is why the Knowledge seekers were among the best people.
Formation : Muhammad Saeed Raslan
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/145561
Download :
The Etiquette of Seeking Knowledge The Etiquette of Seeking Knowledge ... to adorn oneself with beautiful etiquette, noble manners, good behaviour, and pious conduct are distinguishing characteristics of the people of Islam, and knowledge - the most precious pearl in the crown of the purified Shariah - cannot be attained except by those who adorn themselves with its etiquette and those who leave evil qualities associated to it. For this reason the scholars devoted their attention to this etiquette, outlined its importance and wrote books solely on this topic; either pertaining to (general conduct] with all types of knowledge or to specific types of knowledge such as the etiquette of the carriers of the Noble Quran, the etiquette of the muhaddith, the etiquette of the mufti, the etiquette of the qazi (judge), the etiquette of the muhtasib (the one who enjoins good and forbids evil for the sake of Allah) and so on. The issue of this book is the general conduct of those who take the path of seeking the knowledge of the Sharee'ah.
Formation : Baker Bin Abdullah Abu Zaid
Reveiwers : Muhammad AbdulRaoof
Translators : Murad Hilmi Al-Shuwaiq
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/339187
Download :
The Search for the Truth The story of one of the Companions search for the truth.
Formation : Dr. Saleh As-Saleh
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/1225
Download :
Stories of New Muslims This book is published on the shoulders of those people who have volunteered their personal stories of how they entered Islam. If you, the reader, are open to the possibility that Allah, the Creator, has given you clear evidence to accept Him and His message of Islam, then read these stories. From different backgrounds, and different experiences, you just might find someone here who had the same questions and doubts that you may have. Many of these people have endured against tremendous obstacles, including parental opposition, despair with other religions, being blind, and being lied to about the true nature of Islam.
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/283493
Download :
Choose language
Choose Sorah
1- Al-Fatihah ( The Opening )
2- Al-Baqarah ( The Cow )
3- Al-Imran ( The Famiy of Imran )
4- An-Nisa ( The Women )
5- Al-Maidah ( The Table spread with Food )
6- Al-An'am ( The Cattle )
7- Al-A'raf (The Heights )
8- Al-Anfal ( The Spoils of War )
9- At-Taubah ( The Repentance )
10- Yunus ( Jonah )
11- Hud
12- Yusuf (Joseph )
13- Ar-Ra'd ( The Thunder )
14- Ibrahim ( Abraham )
15- Al-Hijr ( The Rocky Tract )
16- An-Nahl ( The Bees )
17- Al-Isra ( The Night Journey )
18- Al-Kahf ( The Cave )
19- Maryam ( Mary )
20- Taha
21- Al-Anbiya ( The Prophets )
22- Al-Hajj ( The Pilgrimage )
23- Al-Mu'minoon ( The Believers )
24- An-Noor ( The Light )
25- Al-Furqan (The Criterion )
26- Ash-Shuara ( The Poets )
27- An-Naml (The Ants )
28- Al-Qasas ( The Stories )
29- Al-Ankaboot ( The Spider )
30- Ar-Room ( The Romans )
31- Luqman
32- As-Sajdah ( The Prostration )
33- Al-Ahzab ( The Combined Forces )
34- Saba ( Sheba )
35- Fatir ( The Orignator )
36- Ya-seen
37- As-Saaffat ( Those Ranges in Ranks )
38- Sad ( The Letter Sad )
39- Az-Zumar ( The Groups )
40- Ghafir ( The Forgiver God )
41- Fussilat ( Explained in Detail )
42- Ash-Shura (Consultation )
43- Az-Zukhruf ( The Gold Adornment )
44- Ad-Dukhan ( The Smoke )
45- Al-Jathiya ( Crouching )
46- Al-Ahqaf ( The Curved Sand-hills )
47- Muhammad
48- Al-Fath ( The Victory )
49- Al-Hujurat ( The Dwellings )
50- Qaf ( The Letter Qaf )
51- Adh-Dhariyat ( The Wind that Scatter )
52- At-Tur ( The Mount )
53- An-Najm ( The Star )
54- Al-Qamar ( The Moon )
55- Ar-Rahman ( The Most Graciouse )
56- Al-Waqi'ah ( The Event )
57- Al-Hadid ( The Iron )
58- Al-Mujadilah ( She That Disputeth )
59- Al-Hashr ( The Gathering )
60- Al-Mumtahanah ( The Woman to be examined )
61- As-Saff ( The Row )
62- Al-Jumu'ah ( Friday )
63- Al-Munafiqoon ( The Hypocrites )
64- At-Taghabun ( Mutual Loss & Gain )
65- At-Talaq ( The Divorce )
66- At-Tahrim ( The Prohibition )
67- Al-Mulk ( Dominion )
68- Al-Qalam ( The Pen )
69- Al-Haaqqah ( The Inevitable )
70- Al-Ma'arij (The Ways of Ascent )
71- Nooh
72- Al-Jinn ( The Jinn )
73- Al-Muzzammil (The One wrapped in Garments)
74- Al-Muddaththir ( The One Enveloped )
75- Al-Qiyamah ( The Resurrection )
76- Al-Insan ( Man )
77- Al-Mursalat ( Those sent forth )
78- An-Naba' ( The Great News )
79- An-Nazi'at ( Those who Pull Out )
80- Abasa ( He frowned )
81- At-Takwir ( The Overthrowing )
82- Al-Infitar ( The Cleaving )
83- Al-Mutaffifin (Those Who Deal in Fraud)
84- Al-Inshiqaq (The Splitting Asunder)
85- Al-Burooj ( The Big Stars )
86- At-Tariq ( The Night-Comer )
87- Al-A'la ( The Most High )
88- Al-Ghashiya ( The Overwhelming )
89- Al-Fajr ( The Dawn )
90- Al-Balad ( The City )
91- Ash-Shams ( The Sun )
92- Al-Layl ( The Night )
93- Ad-Dhuha ( The Forenoon )
94- As-Sharh ( The Opening Forth)
95- At-Tin ( The Fig )
96- Al-'alaq ( The Clot )
97- Al-Qadr ( The Night of Decree )
98- Al-Bayyinah ( The Clear Evidence )
99- Az-Zalzalah ( The Earthquake )
100- Al-'adiyat ( Those That Run )
101- Al-Qari'ah ( The Striking Hour )
102- At-Takathur ( The piling Up )
103- Al-Asr ( The Time )
104- Al-Humazah ( The Slanderer )
105- Al-Fil ( The Elephant )
106- Quraish
107- Al-Ma'un ( Small Kindnesses )
108- Al-Kauther ( A River in Paradise)
109- Al-Kafiroon ( The Disbelievers )
110- An-Nasr ( The Help )
111- Al-Masad ( The Palm Fibre )
112- Al-Ikhlas ( Sincerity )
113- Al-Falaq ( The Daybreak )
114- An-Nas ( Mankind )
Random Books
Faith in the Angels
Explaining the Meaning of An-Nur (the Light), One of Allah's Names
Translation of the Meanings of The Noble Quran in the English Language [with Recitation]
Have you Discovered its Real Beauty?
Ahmad ibn Hanbal's Treatise on Prayer (Salah)
Choose tafseer
Tafseer Ibn Khatheer
Tafseer Aljlalin
Tafseer Altabari
Tafseer Alqurtubi
Tafseer Alsaadi
Participate
Powered by Quran For All version 1.2
