العودة إلى الموقع
Noble Quran » English - Sahih International » Sorah Ar-Room ( The Romans )
English - Sahih International
Sorah Ar-Room ( The Romans ) - Verses Number 60
الم ( 1 )
Alif, Lam, Meem.
غُلِبَتِ الرُّومُ ( 2 )
The Byzantines have been defeated
فِي أَدْنَى الْأَرْضِ وَهُم مِّن بَعْدِ غَلَبِهِمْ سَيَغْلِبُونَ ( 3 )
In the nearest land. But they, after their defeat, will overcome.
فِي بِضْعِ سِنِينَ ۗ لِلَّهِ الْأَمْرُ مِن قَبْلُ وَمِن بَعْدُ ۚ وَيَوْمَئِذٍ يَفْرَحُ الْمُؤْمِنُونَ ( 4 )
Within three to nine years. To Allah belongs the command before and after. And that day the believers will rejoice
بِنَصْرِ اللَّهِ ۚ يَنصُرُ مَن يَشَاءُ ۖ وَهُوَ الْعَزِيزُ الرَّحِيمُ ( 5 )
In the victory of Allah. He gives victory to whom He wills, and He is the Exalted in Might, the Merciful.
وَعْدَ اللَّهِ ۖ لَا يُخْلِفُ اللَّهُ وَعْدَهُ وَلَٰكِنَّ أَكْثَرَ النَّاسِ لَا يَعْلَمُونَ ( 6 )
[It is] the promise of Allah. Allah does not fail in His promise, but most of the people do not know.
يَعْلَمُونَ ظَاهِرًا مِّنَ الْحَيَاةِ الدُّنْيَا وَهُمْ عَنِ الْآخِرَةِ هُمْ غَافِلُونَ ( 7 )
They know what is apparent of the worldly life, but they, of the Hereafter, are unaware.
أَوَلَمْ يَتَفَكَّرُوا فِي أَنفُسِهِم ۗ مَّا خَلَقَ اللَّهُ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضَ وَمَا بَيْنَهُمَا إِلَّا بِالْحَقِّ وَأَجَلٍ مُّسَمًّى ۗ وَإِنَّ كَثِيرًا مِّنَ النَّاسِ بِلِقَاءِ رَبِّهِمْ لَكَافِرُونَ ( 8 )
Do they not contemplate within themselves? Allah has not created the heavens and the earth and what is between them except in truth and for a specified term. And indeed, many of the people, in [the matter of] the meeting with their Lord, are disbelievers.
أَوَلَمْ يَسِيرُوا فِي الْأَرْضِ فَيَنظُرُوا كَيْفَ كَانَ عَاقِبَةُ الَّذِينَ مِن قَبْلِهِمْ ۚ كَانُوا أَشَدَّ مِنْهُمْ قُوَّةً وَأَثَارُوا الْأَرْضَ وَعَمَرُوهَا أَكْثَرَ مِمَّا عَمَرُوهَا وَجَاءَتْهُمْ رُسُلُهُم بِالْبَيِّنَاتِ ۖ فَمَا كَانَ اللَّهُ لِيَظْلِمَهُمْ وَلَٰكِن كَانُوا أَنفُسَهُمْ يَظْلِمُونَ ( 9 )
Have they not traveled through the earth and observed how was the end of those before them? They were greater than them in power, and they plowed the earth and built it up more than they have built it up, and their messengers came to them with clear evidences. And Allah would not ever have wronged them, but they were wronging themselves.
ثُمَّ كَانَ عَاقِبَةَ الَّذِينَ أَسَاءُوا السُّوأَىٰ أَن كَذَّبُوا بِآيَاتِ اللَّهِ وَكَانُوا بِهَا يَسْتَهْزِئُونَ ( 10 )
Then the end of those who did evil was the worst [consequence] because they denied the signs of Allah and used to ridicule them.
اللَّهُ يَبْدَأُ الْخَلْقَ ثُمَّ يُعِيدُهُ ثُمَّ إِلَيْهِ تُرْجَعُونَ ( 11 )
Allah begins creation; then He will repeat it; then to Him you will be returned.
وَيَوْمَ تَقُومُ السَّاعَةُ يُبْلِسُ الْمُجْرِمُونَ ( 12 )
And the Day the Hour appears the criminals will be in despair.
وَلَمْ يَكُن لَّهُم مِّن شُرَكَائِهِمْ شُفَعَاءُ وَكَانُوا بِشُرَكَائِهِمْ كَافِرِينَ ( 13 )
And there will not be for them among their [alleged] partners any intercessors, and they will [then] be disbelievers in their partners.
وَيَوْمَ تَقُومُ السَّاعَةُ يَوْمَئِذٍ يَتَفَرَّقُونَ ( 14 )
And the Day the Hour appears - that Day they will become separated.
فَأَمَّا الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ فَهُمْ فِي رَوْضَةٍ يُحْبَرُونَ ( 15 )
And as for those who had believed and done righteous deeds, they will be in a garden [of Paradise], delighted.
وَأَمَّا الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا وَكَذَّبُوا بِآيَاتِنَا وَلِقَاءِ الْآخِرَةِ فَأُولَٰئِكَ فِي الْعَذَابِ مُحْضَرُونَ ( 16 )
But as for those who disbelieved and denied Our verses and the meeting of the Hereafter, those will be brought into the punishment [to remain].
فَسُبْحَانَ اللَّهِ حِينَ تُمْسُونَ وَحِينَ تُصْبِحُونَ ( 17 )
So exalted is Allah when you reach the evening and when you reach the morning.
وَلَهُ الْحَمْدُ فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ وَعَشِيًّا وَحِينَ تُظْهِرُونَ ( 18 )
And to Him is [due all] praise throughout the heavens and the earth. And [exalted is He] at night and when you are at noon.
يُخْرِجُ الْحَيَّ مِنَ الْمَيِّتِ وَيُخْرِجُ الْمَيِّتَ مِنَ الْحَيِّ وَيُحْيِي الْأَرْضَ بَعْدَ مَوْتِهَا ۚ وَكَذَٰلِكَ تُخْرَجُونَ ( 19 )
He brings the living out of the dead and brings the dead out of the living and brings to life the earth after its lifelessness. And thus will you be brought out.
وَمِنْ آيَاتِهِ أَنْ خَلَقَكُم مِّن تُرَابٍ ثُمَّ إِذَا أَنتُم بَشَرٌ تَنتَشِرُونَ ( 20 )
And of His signs is that He created you from dust; then, suddenly you were human beings dispersing [throughout the earth].
وَمِنْ آيَاتِهِ أَنْ خَلَقَ لَكُم مِّنْ أَنفُسِكُمْ أَزْوَاجًا لِّتَسْكُنُوا إِلَيْهَا وَجَعَلَ بَيْنَكُم مَّوَدَّةً وَرَحْمَةً ۚ إِنَّ فِي ذَٰلِكَ لَآيَاتٍ لِّقَوْمٍ يَتَفَكَّرُونَ ( 21 )
And of His signs is that He created for you from yourselves mates that you may find tranquillity in them; and He placed between you affection and mercy. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought.
وَمِنْ آيَاتِهِ خَلْقُ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ وَاخْتِلَافُ أَلْسِنَتِكُمْ وَأَلْوَانِكُمْ ۚ إِنَّ فِي ذَٰلِكَ لَآيَاتٍ لِّلْعَالِمِينَ ( 22 )
And of His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth and the diversity of your languages and your colors. Indeed in that are signs for those of knowledge.
وَمِنْ آيَاتِهِ مَنَامُكُم بِاللَّيْلِ وَالنَّهَارِ وَابْتِغَاؤُكُم مِّن فَضْلِهِ ۚ إِنَّ فِي ذَٰلِكَ لَآيَاتٍ لِّقَوْمٍ يَسْمَعُونَ ( 23 )
And of His signs is your sleep by night and day and your seeking of His bounty. Indeed in that are signs for a people who listen.
وَمِنْ آيَاتِهِ يُرِيكُمُ الْبَرْقَ خَوْفًا وَطَمَعًا وَيُنَزِّلُ مِنَ السَّمَاءِ مَاءً فَيُحْيِي بِهِ الْأَرْضَ بَعْدَ مَوْتِهَا ۚ إِنَّ فِي ذَٰلِكَ لَآيَاتٍ لِّقَوْمٍ يَعْقِلُونَ ( 24 )
And of His signs is [that] He shows you the lightening [causing] fear and aspiration, and He sends down rain from the sky by which He brings to life the earth after its lifelessness. Indeed in that are signs for a people who use reason.
وَمِنْ آيَاتِهِ أَن تَقُومَ السَّمَاءُ وَالْأَرْضُ بِأَمْرِهِ ۚ ثُمَّ إِذَا دَعَاكُمْ دَعْوَةً مِّنَ الْأَرْضِ إِذَا أَنتُمْ تَخْرُجُونَ ( 25 )
And of His signs is that the heaven and earth remain by His command. Then when He calls you with a [single] call from the earth, immediately you will come forth.
وَلَهُ مَن فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ ۖ كُلٌّ لَّهُ قَانِتُونَ ( 26 )
And to Him belongs whoever is in the heavens and earth. All are to Him devoutly obedient.
وَهُوَ الَّذِي يَبْدَأُ الْخَلْقَ ثُمَّ يُعِيدُهُ وَهُوَ أَهْوَنُ عَلَيْهِ ۚ وَلَهُ الْمَثَلُ الْأَعْلَىٰ فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ ۚ وَهُوَ الْعَزِيزُ الْحَكِيمُ ( 27 )
And it is He who begins creation; then He repeats it, and that is [even] easier for Him. To Him belongs the highest attribute in the heavens and earth. And He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
ضَرَبَ لَكُم مَّثَلًا مِّنْ أَنفُسِكُمْ ۖ هَل لَّكُم مِّن مَّا مَلَكَتْ أَيْمَانُكُم مِّن شُرَكَاءَ فِي مَا رَزَقْنَاكُمْ فَأَنتُمْ فِيهِ سَوَاءٌ تَخَافُونَهُمْ كَخِيفَتِكُمْ أَنفُسَكُمْ ۚ كَذَٰلِكَ نُفَصِّلُ الْآيَاتِ لِقَوْمٍ يَعْقِلُونَ ( 28 )
He presents to you an example from yourselves. Do you have among those whom your right hands possess any partners in what We have provided for you so that you are equal therein [and] would fear them as your fear of one another [within a partnership]? Thus do We detail the verses for a people who use reason.
بَلِ اتَّبَعَ الَّذِينَ ظَلَمُوا أَهْوَاءَهُم بِغَيْرِ عِلْمٍ ۖ فَمَن يَهْدِي مَنْ أَضَلَّ اللَّهُ ۖ وَمَا لَهُم مِّن نَّاصِرِينَ ( 29 )
But those who wrong follow their [own] desires without knowledge. Then who can guide one whom Allah has sent astray? And for them there are no helpers.
فَأَقِمْ وَجْهَكَ لِلدِّينِ حَنِيفًا ۚ فِطْرَتَ اللَّهِ الَّتِي فَطَرَ النَّاسَ عَلَيْهَا ۚ لَا تَبْدِيلَ لِخَلْقِ اللَّهِ ۚ ذَٰلِكَ الدِّينُ الْقَيِّمُ وَلَٰكِنَّ أَكْثَرَ النَّاسِ لَا يَعْلَمُونَ ( 30 )
So direct your face toward the religion, inclining to truth. [Adhere to] the fitrah of Allah upon which He has created [all] people. No change should there be in the creation of Allah. That is the correct religion, but most of the people do not know.
مُنِيبِينَ إِلَيْهِ وَاتَّقُوهُ وَأَقِيمُوا الصَّلَاةَ وَلَا تَكُونُوا مِنَ الْمُشْرِكِينَ ( 31 )
[Adhere to it], turning in repentance to Him, and fear Him and establish prayer and do not be of those who associate others with Allah
مِنَ الَّذِينَ فَرَّقُوا دِينَهُمْ وَكَانُوا شِيَعًا ۖ كُلُّ حِزْبٍ بِمَا لَدَيْهِمْ فَرِحُونَ ( 32 )
[Or] of those who have divided their religion and become sects, every faction rejoicing in what it has.
وَإِذَا مَسَّ النَّاسَ ضُرٌّ دَعَوْا رَبَّهُم مُّنِيبِينَ إِلَيْهِ ثُمَّ إِذَا أَذَاقَهُم مِّنْهُ رَحْمَةً إِذَا فَرِيقٌ مِّنْهُم بِرَبِّهِمْ يُشْرِكُونَ ( 33 )
And when adversity touches the people, they call upon their Lord, turning in repentance to Him. Then when He lets them taste mercy from Him, at once a party of them associate others with their Lord,
لِيَكْفُرُوا بِمَا آتَيْنَاهُمْ ۚ فَتَمَتَّعُوا فَسَوْفَ تَعْلَمُونَ ( 34 )
So that they will deny what We have granted them. Then enjoy yourselves, for you are going to know.
أَمْ أَنزَلْنَا عَلَيْهِمْ سُلْطَانًا فَهُوَ يَتَكَلَّمُ بِمَا كَانُوا بِهِ يُشْرِكُونَ ( 35 )
Or have We sent down to them an authority, and it speaks of what they were associating with Him?
وَإِذَا أَذَقْنَا النَّاسَ رَحْمَةً فَرِحُوا بِهَا ۖ وَإِن تُصِبْهُمْ سَيِّئَةٌ بِمَا قَدَّمَتْ أَيْدِيهِمْ إِذَا هُمْ يَقْنَطُونَ ( 36 )
And when We let the people taste mercy, they rejoice therein, but if evil afflicts them for what their hands have put forth, immediately they despair.
أَوَلَمْ يَرَوْا أَنَّ اللَّهَ يَبْسُطُ الرِّزْقَ لِمَن يَشَاءُ وَيَقْدِرُ ۚ إِنَّ فِي ذَٰلِكَ لَآيَاتٍ لِّقَوْمٍ يُؤْمِنُونَ ( 37 )
Do they not see that Allah extends provision for whom He wills and restricts [it]? Indeed, in that are signs for a people who believe.
فَآتِ ذَا الْقُرْبَىٰ حَقَّهُ وَالْمِسْكِينَ وَابْنَ السَّبِيلِ ۚ ذَٰلِكَ خَيْرٌ لِّلَّذِينَ يُرِيدُونَ وَجْهَ اللَّهِ ۖ وَأُولَٰئِكَ هُمُ الْمُفْلِحُونَ ( 38 )
So give the relative his right, as well as the needy and the traveler. That is best for those who desire the countenance of Allah, and it is they who will be the successful.
وَمَا آتَيْتُم مِّن رِّبًا لِّيَرْبُوَ فِي أَمْوَالِ النَّاسِ فَلَا يَرْبُو عِندَ اللَّهِ ۖ وَمَا آتَيْتُم مِّن زَكَاةٍ تُرِيدُونَ وَجْهَ اللَّهِ فَأُولَٰئِكَ هُمُ الْمُضْعِفُونَ ( 39 )
And whatever you give for interest to increase within the wealth of people will not increase with Allah. But what you give in zakah, desiring the countenance of Allah - those are the multipliers.
اللَّهُ الَّذِي خَلَقَكُمْ ثُمَّ رَزَقَكُمْ ثُمَّ يُمِيتُكُمْ ثُمَّ يُحْيِيكُمْ ۖ هَلْ مِن شُرَكَائِكُم مَّن يَفْعَلُ مِن ذَٰلِكُم مِّن شَيْءٍ ۚ سُبْحَانَهُ وَتَعَالَىٰ عَمَّا يُشْرِكُونَ ( 40 )
Allah is the one who created you, then provided for you, then will cause you to die, and then will give you life. Are there any of your "partners" who does anything of that? Exalted is He and high above what they associate with Him.
ظَهَرَ الْفَسَادُ فِي الْبَرِّ وَالْبَحْرِ بِمَا كَسَبَتْ أَيْدِي النَّاسِ لِيُذِيقَهُم بَعْضَ الَّذِي عَمِلُوا لَعَلَّهُمْ يَرْجِعُونَ ( 41 )
Corruption has appeared throughout the land and sea by [reason of] what the hands of people have earned so He may let them taste part of [the consequence of] what they have done that perhaps they will return [to righteousness].
قُلْ سِيرُوا فِي الْأَرْضِ فَانظُرُوا كَيْفَ كَانَ عَاقِبَةُ الَّذِينَ مِن قَبْلُ ۚ كَانَ أَكْثَرُهُم مُّشْرِكِينَ ( 42 )
Say, [O Muhammad], "Travel through the land and observe how was the end of those before. Most of them were associators [of others with Allah].
فَأَقِمْ وَجْهَكَ لِلدِّينِ الْقَيِّمِ مِن قَبْلِ أَن يَأْتِيَ يَوْمٌ لَّا مَرَدَّ لَهُ مِنَ اللَّهِ ۖ يَوْمَئِذٍ يَصَّدَّعُونَ ( 43 )
So direct your face toward the correct religion before a Day comes from Allah of which there is no repelling. That Day, they will be divided.
مَن كَفَرَ فَعَلَيْهِ كُفْرُهُ ۖ وَمَنْ عَمِلَ صَالِحًا فَلِأَنفُسِهِمْ يَمْهَدُونَ ( 44 )
Whoever disbelieves - upon him is [the consequence of] his disbelief. And whoever does righteousness - they are for themselves preparing,
لِيَجْزِيَ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ مِن فَضْلِهِ ۚ إِنَّهُ لَا يُحِبُّ الْكَافِرِينَ ( 45 )
That He may reward those who have believed and done righteous deeds out of His bounty. Indeed, He does not like the disbelievers.
وَمِنْ آيَاتِهِ أَن يُرْسِلَ الرِّيَاحَ مُبَشِّرَاتٍ وَلِيُذِيقَكُم مِّن رَّحْمَتِهِ وَلِتَجْرِيَ الْفُلْكُ بِأَمْرِهِ وَلِتَبْتَغُوا مِن فَضْلِهِ وَلَعَلَّكُمْ تَشْكُرُونَ ( 46 )
And of His signs is that He sends the winds as bringers of good tidings and to let you taste His mercy and so the ships may sail at His command and so you may seek of His bounty, and perhaps you will be grateful.
وَلَقَدْ أَرْسَلْنَا مِن قَبْلِكَ رُسُلًا إِلَىٰ قَوْمِهِمْ فَجَاءُوهُم بِالْبَيِّنَاتِ فَانتَقَمْنَا مِنَ الَّذِينَ أَجْرَمُوا ۖ وَكَانَ حَقًّا عَلَيْنَا نَصْرُ الْمُؤْمِنِينَ ( 47 )
And We have already sent messengers before you to their peoples, and they came to them with clear evidences; then We took retribution from those who committed crimes, and incumbent upon Us was support of the believers.
اللَّهُ الَّذِي يُرْسِلُ الرِّيَاحَ فَتُثِيرُ سَحَابًا فَيَبْسُطُهُ فِي السَّمَاءِ كَيْفَ يَشَاءُ وَيَجْعَلُهُ كِسَفًا فَتَرَى الْوَدْقَ يَخْرُجُ مِنْ خِلَالِهِ ۖ فَإِذَا أَصَابَ بِهِ مَن يَشَاءُ مِنْ عِبَادِهِ إِذَا هُمْ يَسْتَبْشِرُونَ ( 48 )
It is Allah who sends the winds, and they stir the clouds and spread them in the sky however He wills, and He makes them fragments so you see the rain emerge from within them. And when He causes it to fall upon whom He wills of His servants, immediately they rejoice
وَإِن كَانُوا مِن قَبْلِ أَن يُنَزَّلَ عَلَيْهِم مِّن قَبْلِهِ لَمُبْلِسِينَ ( 49 )
Although they were, before it was sent down upon them - before that, in despair.
فَانظُرْ إِلَىٰ آثَارِ رَحْمَتِ اللَّهِ كَيْفَ يُحْيِي الْأَرْضَ بَعْدَ مَوْتِهَا ۚ إِنَّ ذَٰلِكَ لَمُحْيِي الْمَوْتَىٰ ۖ وَهُوَ عَلَىٰ كُلِّ شَيْءٍ قَدِيرٌ ( 50 )
So observe the effects of the mercy of Allah - how He gives life to the earth after its lifelessness. Indeed, that [same one] will give life to the dead, and He is over all things competent.
وَلَئِنْ أَرْسَلْنَا رِيحًا فَرَأَوْهُ مُصْفَرًّا لَّظَلُّوا مِن بَعْدِهِ يَكْفُرُونَ ( 51 )
But if We should send a [bad] wind and they saw [their crops] turned yellow, they would remain thereafter disbelievers.
فَإِنَّكَ لَا تُسْمِعُ الْمَوْتَىٰ وَلَا تُسْمِعُ الصُّمَّ الدُّعَاءَ إِذَا وَلَّوْا مُدْبِرِينَ ( 52 )
So indeed, you will not make the dead hear, nor will you make the deaf hear the call when they turn their backs, retreating.
وَمَا أَنتَ بِهَادِ الْعُمْيِ عَن ضَلَالَتِهِمْ ۖ إِن تُسْمِعُ إِلَّا مَن يُؤْمِنُ بِآيَاتِنَا فَهُم مُّسْلِمُونَ ( 53 )
And you cannot guide the blind away from their error. You will only make hear those who believe in Our verses so they are Muslims [in submission to Allah].
اللَّهُ الَّذِي خَلَقَكُم مِّن ضَعْفٍ ثُمَّ جَعَلَ مِن بَعْدِ ضَعْفٍ قُوَّةً ثُمَّ جَعَلَ مِن بَعْدِ قُوَّةٍ ضَعْفًا وَشَيْبَةً ۚ يَخْلُقُ مَا يَشَاءُ ۖ وَهُوَ الْعَلِيمُ الْقَدِيرُ ( 54 )
Allah is the one who created you from weakness, then made after weakness strength, then made after strength weakness and white hair. He creates what He wills, and He is the Knowing, the Competent.
وَيَوْمَ تَقُومُ السَّاعَةُ يُقْسِمُ الْمُجْرِمُونَ مَا لَبِثُوا غَيْرَ سَاعَةٍ ۚ كَذَٰلِكَ كَانُوا يُؤْفَكُونَ ( 55 )
And the Day the Hour appears the criminals will swear they had remained but an hour. Thus they were deluded.
وَقَالَ الَّذِينَ أُوتُوا الْعِلْمَ وَالْإِيمَانَ لَقَدْ لَبِثْتُمْ فِي كِتَابِ اللَّهِ إِلَىٰ يَوْمِ الْبَعْثِ ۖ فَهَٰذَا يَوْمُ الْبَعْثِ وَلَٰكِنَّكُمْ كُنتُمْ لَا تَعْلَمُونَ ( 56 )
But those who were given knowledge and faith will say, "You remained the extent of Allah 's decree until the Day of Resurrection, and this is the Day of Resurrection, but you did not used to know."
فَيَوْمَئِذٍ لَّا يَنفَعُ الَّذِينَ ظَلَمُوا مَعْذِرَتُهُمْ وَلَا هُمْ يُسْتَعْتَبُونَ ( 57 )
So that Day, their excuse will not benefit those who wronged, nor will they be asked to appease [Allah].
وَلَقَدْ ضَرَبْنَا لِلنَّاسِ فِي هَٰذَا الْقُرْآنِ مِن كُلِّ مَثَلٍ ۚ وَلَئِن جِئْتَهُم بِآيَةٍ لَّيَقُولَنَّ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا إِنْ أَنتُمْ إِلَّا مُبْطِلُونَ ( 58 )
And We have certainly presented to the people in this Qur'an from every [kind of] example. But, [O Muhammad], if you should bring them a sign, the disbelievers will surely say, "You [believers] are but falsifiers."
كَذَٰلِكَ يَطْبَعُ اللَّهُ عَلَىٰ قُلُوبِ الَّذِينَ لَا يَعْلَمُونَ ( 59 )
Thus does Allah seal the hearts of those who do not know.
فَاصْبِرْ إِنَّ وَعْدَ اللَّهِ حَقٌّ ۖ وَلَا يَسْتَخِفَّنَّكَ الَّذِينَ لَا يُوقِنُونَ ( 60 )
So be patient. Indeed, the promise of Allah is truth. And let them not disquiet you who are not certain [in faith].
Random Books
The Evil Consequences of Adultery Effects of fornication upon the self and society
Formation : Muhammad ibn Ibraheem al-Hamad
From issues : Daar Al-Watan
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/1329
Download :
The Paradise and the Hellfire (Al-Jannah wa An-Naar) A very important series begins on the list today, concerned with the subject of al-Jannah and an-Naar - the Paradise and the Hell-Fire. One of these two will be the end destination; moreover the eternal abode, for each and every one of us. Therefore it is crucial for us to reflect on what Allah has prepared for mankind - for those who are obedient and recognise His favours, and for those who reject His sins and rebel against Him.
Formation : Omar Bin Sulaiman Al-Ashqar
Reveiwers : Muhammad AbdulRaoof
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/336354
Download :
Why Were We Created ? have you ever asked; why was I created? why I am here? what am I doing in this world? why did God created me?.. This book will help you find the answers.
Formation : Abu Ameenah Bilal Philips
From issues : http://www.islambasics.com - Islam Basics Website
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/51910
Download :
speed of light in the Holy Quran Speed of light IN MONOTHESIM BOOKS, WHY?
Formation : Mohammed Dudah
From issues : http://www.nooran.org - The International Institution For The Scientific Miracles Website
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/193679
Download :
The Way To Patience And Gratitude Patience and Gratitude are the keys to success in this world and the next, as Imam Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya explains in a beautiful Manner in this Book.
Formation : Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyyah
Reveiwers : Muhammad AbdulRaoof
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/314956
Download :
Choose language
Choose Sorah
1- Al-Fatihah ( The Opening )
2- Al-Baqarah ( The Cow )
3- Al-Imran ( The Famiy of Imran )
4- An-Nisa ( The Women )
5- Al-Maidah ( The Table spread with Food )
6- Al-An'am ( The Cattle )
7- Al-A'raf (The Heights )
8- Al-Anfal ( The Spoils of War )
9- At-Taubah ( The Repentance )
10- Yunus ( Jonah )
11- Hud
12- Yusuf (Joseph )
13- Ar-Ra'd ( The Thunder )
14- Ibrahim ( Abraham )
15- Al-Hijr ( The Rocky Tract )
16- An-Nahl ( The Bees )
17- Al-Isra ( The Night Journey )
18- Al-Kahf ( The Cave )
19- Maryam ( Mary )
20- Taha
21- Al-Anbiya ( The Prophets )
22- Al-Hajj ( The Pilgrimage )
23- Al-Mu'minoon ( The Believers )
24- An-Noor ( The Light )
25- Al-Furqan (The Criterion )
26- Ash-Shuara ( The Poets )
27- An-Naml (The Ants )
28- Al-Qasas ( The Stories )
29- Al-Ankaboot ( The Spider )
30- Ar-Room ( The Romans )
31- Luqman
32- As-Sajdah ( The Prostration )
33- Al-Ahzab ( The Combined Forces )
34- Saba ( Sheba )
35- Fatir ( The Orignator )
36- Ya-seen
37- As-Saaffat ( Those Ranges in Ranks )
38- Sad ( The Letter Sad )
39- Az-Zumar ( The Groups )
40- Ghafir ( The Forgiver God )
41- Fussilat ( Explained in Detail )
42- Ash-Shura (Consultation )
43- Az-Zukhruf ( The Gold Adornment )
44- Ad-Dukhan ( The Smoke )
45- Al-Jathiya ( Crouching )
46- Al-Ahqaf ( The Curved Sand-hills )
47- Muhammad
48- Al-Fath ( The Victory )
49- Al-Hujurat ( The Dwellings )
50- Qaf ( The Letter Qaf )
51- Adh-Dhariyat ( The Wind that Scatter )
52- At-Tur ( The Mount )
53- An-Najm ( The Star )
54- Al-Qamar ( The Moon )
55- Ar-Rahman ( The Most Graciouse )
56- Al-Waqi'ah ( The Event )
57- Al-Hadid ( The Iron )
58- Al-Mujadilah ( She That Disputeth )
59- Al-Hashr ( The Gathering )
60- Al-Mumtahanah ( The Woman to be examined )
61- As-Saff ( The Row )
62- Al-Jumu'ah ( Friday )
63- Al-Munafiqoon ( The Hypocrites )
64- At-Taghabun ( Mutual Loss & Gain )
65- At-Talaq ( The Divorce )
66- At-Tahrim ( The Prohibition )
67- Al-Mulk ( Dominion )
68- Al-Qalam ( The Pen )
69- Al-Haaqqah ( The Inevitable )
70- Al-Ma'arij (The Ways of Ascent )
71- Nooh
72- Al-Jinn ( The Jinn )
73- Al-Muzzammil (The One wrapped in Garments)
74- Al-Muddaththir ( The One Enveloped )
75- Al-Qiyamah ( The Resurrection )
76- Al-Insan ( Man )
77- Al-Mursalat ( Those sent forth )
78- An-Naba' ( The Great News )
79- An-Nazi'at ( Those who Pull Out )
80- Abasa ( He frowned )
81- At-Takwir ( The Overthrowing )
82- Al-Infitar ( The Cleaving )
83- Al-Mutaffifin (Those Who Deal in Fraud)
84- Al-Inshiqaq (The Splitting Asunder)
85- Al-Burooj ( The Big Stars )
86- At-Tariq ( The Night-Comer )
87- Al-A'la ( The Most High )
88- Al-Ghashiya ( The Overwhelming )
89- Al-Fajr ( The Dawn )
90- Al-Balad ( The City )
91- Ash-Shams ( The Sun )
92- Al-Layl ( The Night )
93- Ad-Dhuha ( The Forenoon )
94- As-Sharh ( The Opening Forth)
95- At-Tin ( The Fig )
96- Al-'alaq ( The Clot )
97- Al-Qadr ( The Night of Decree )
98- Al-Bayyinah ( The Clear Evidence )
99- Az-Zalzalah ( The Earthquake )
100- Al-'adiyat ( Those That Run )
101- Al-Qari'ah ( The Striking Hour )
102- At-Takathur ( The piling Up )
103- Al-Asr ( The Time )
104- Al-Humazah ( The Slanderer )
105- Al-Fil ( The Elephant )
106- Quraish
107- Al-Ma'un ( Small Kindnesses )
108- Al-Kauther ( A River in Paradise)
109- Al-Kafiroon ( The Disbelievers )
110- An-Nasr ( The Help )
111- Al-Masad ( The Palm Fibre )
112- Al-Ikhlas ( Sincerity )
113- Al-Falaq ( The Daybreak )
114- An-Nas ( Mankind )
Random Books
Saudi Arabia in 100 Questions
The Status of the Sunnah in Islaam
The Islamic Awakening: Important Guidelines
The Fundamentals of Islam
The Truth About The Original Sin
Choose tafseer
Tafseer Ibn Khatheer
Tafseer Aljlalin
Tafseer Altabari
Tafseer Alqurtubi
Tafseer Alsaadi
Participate
Powered by Quran For All version 1.2
