العودة إلى الموقع
Noble Quran » English - Yusuf Ali » Sorah Luqman
English - Yusuf Ali
Sorah Luqman - Verses Number 34
الم ( 1 )
A. L. M.
تِلْكَ آيَاتُ الْكِتَابِ الْحَكِيمِ ( 2 )
These are Verses of the Wise Book,-
هُدًى وَرَحْمَةً لِّلْمُحْسِنِينَ ( 3 )
A Guide and a Mercy to the Doers of Good,-
الَّذِينَ يُقِيمُونَ الصَّلَاةَ وَيُؤْتُونَ الزَّكَاةَ وَهُم بِالْآخِرَةِ هُمْ يُوقِنُونَ ( 4 )
Those who establish regular Prayer, and give regular Charity, and have (in their hearts) the assurance of the Hereafter.
أُولَٰئِكَ عَلَىٰ هُدًى مِّن رَّبِّهِمْ ۖ وَأُولَٰئِكَ هُمُ الْمُفْلِحُونَ ( 5 )
These are on (true) guidance from their Lord: and these are the ones who will prosper.
وَمِنَ النَّاسِ مَن يَشْتَرِي لَهْوَ الْحَدِيثِ لِيُضِلَّ عَن سَبِيلِ اللَّهِ بِغَيْرِ عِلْمٍ وَيَتَّخِذَهَا هُزُوًا ۚ أُولَٰئِكَ لَهُمْ عَذَابٌ مُّهِينٌ ( 6 )
But there are, among men, those who purchase idle tales, without knowledge (or meaning), to mislead (men) from the Path of Allah and throw ridicule (on the Path): for such there will be a Humiliating Penalty.
وَإِذَا تُتْلَىٰ عَلَيْهِ آيَاتُنَا وَلَّىٰ مُسْتَكْبِرًا كَأَن لَّمْ يَسْمَعْهَا كَأَنَّ فِي أُذُنَيْهِ وَقْرًا ۖ فَبَشِّرْهُ بِعَذَابٍ أَلِيمٍ ( 7 )
When Our Signs are rehearsed to such a one, he turns away in arrogance, as if he heard them not, as if there were deafness in both his ears: announce to him a grievous Penalty.
إِنَّ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ لَهُمْ جَنَّاتُ النَّعِيمِ ( 8 )
For those who believe and work righteous deeds, there will be Gardens of Bliss,-
خَالِدِينَ فِيهَا ۖ وَعْدَ اللَّهِ حَقًّا ۚ وَهُوَ الْعَزِيزُ الْحَكِيمُ ( 9 )
To dwell therein. The promise of Allah is true: and He is Exalted in Power, Wise.
خَلَقَ السَّمَاوَاتِ بِغَيْرِ عَمَدٍ تَرَوْنَهَا ۖ وَأَلْقَىٰ فِي الْأَرْضِ رَوَاسِيَ أَن تَمِيدَ بِكُمْ وَبَثَّ فِيهَا مِن كُلِّ دَابَّةٍ ۚ وَأَنزَلْنَا مِنَ السَّمَاءِ مَاءً فَأَنبَتْنَا فِيهَا مِن كُلِّ زَوْجٍ كَرِيمٍ ( 10 )
He created the heavens without any pillars that ye can see; He set on the earth mountains standing firm, lest it should shake with you; and He scattered through it beasts of all kinds. We send down rain from the sky, and produce on the earth every kind of noble creature, in pairs.
هَٰذَا خَلْقُ اللَّهِ فَأَرُونِي مَاذَا خَلَقَ الَّذِينَ مِن دُونِهِ ۚ بَلِ الظَّالِمُونَ فِي ضَلَالٍ مُّبِينٍ ( 11 )
Such is the Creation of Allah: now show Me what is there that others besides Him have created: nay, but the Transgressors are in manifest error.
وَلَقَدْ آتَيْنَا لُقْمَانَ الْحِكْمَةَ أَنِ اشْكُرْ لِلَّهِ ۚ وَمَن يَشْكُرْ فَإِنَّمَا يَشْكُرُ لِنَفْسِهِ ۖ وَمَن كَفَرَ فَإِنَّ اللَّهَ غَنِيٌّ حَمِيدٌ ( 12 )
we bestowed (in the past) Wisdom on Luqman: "Show (thy) gratitude to Allah." Any who is (so) grateful does so to the profit of his own soul: but if any is ungrateful, verily Allah is free of all wants, Worthy of all praise.
وَإِذْ قَالَ لُقْمَانُ لِابْنِهِ وَهُوَ يَعِظُهُ يَا بُنَيَّ لَا تُشْرِكْ بِاللَّهِ ۖ إِنَّ الشِّرْكَ لَظُلْمٌ عَظِيمٌ ( 13 )
Behold, Luqman said to his son by way of instruction: "O my son! join not in worship (others) with Allah: for false worship is indeed the highest wrong-doing."
وَوَصَّيْنَا الْإِنسَانَ بِوَالِدَيْهِ حَمَلَتْهُ أُمُّهُ وَهْنًا عَلَىٰ وَهْنٍ وَفِصَالُهُ فِي عَامَيْنِ أَنِ اشْكُرْ لِي وَلِوَالِدَيْكَ إِلَيَّ الْمَصِيرُ ( 14 )
And We have enjoined on man (to be good) to his parents: in travail upon travail did his mother bear him, and in years twain was his weaning: (hear the command), "Show gratitude to Me and to thy parents: to Me is (thy final) Goal.
وَإِن جَاهَدَاكَ عَلَىٰ أَن تُشْرِكَ بِي مَا لَيْسَ لَكَ بِهِ عِلْمٌ فَلَا تُطِعْهُمَا ۖ وَصَاحِبْهُمَا فِي الدُّنْيَا مَعْرُوفًا ۖ وَاتَّبِعْ سَبِيلَ مَنْ أَنَابَ إِلَيَّ ۚ ثُمَّ إِلَيَّ مَرْجِعُكُمْ فَأُنَبِّئُكُم بِمَا كُنتُمْ تَعْمَلُونَ ( 15 )
"But if they strive to make thee join in worship with Me things of which thou hast no knowledge, obey them not; yet bear them company in this life with justice (and consideration), and follow the way of those who turn to me (in love): in the end the return of you all is to Me, and I will tell you the truth (and meaning) of all that ye did."
يَا بُنَيَّ إِنَّهَا إِن تَكُ مِثْقَالَ حَبَّةٍ مِّنْ خَرْدَلٍ فَتَكُن فِي صَخْرَةٍ أَوْ فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ أَوْ فِي الْأَرْضِ يَأْتِ بِهَا اللَّهُ ۚ إِنَّ اللَّهَ لَطِيفٌ خَبِيرٌ ( 16 )
"O my son!" (said Luqman), "If there be (but) the weight of a mustard-seed and it were (hidden) in a rock, or (anywhere) in the heavens or on earth, Allah will bring it forth: for Allah understands the finest mysteries, (and) is well-acquainted (with them).
يَا بُنَيَّ أَقِمِ الصَّلَاةَ وَأْمُرْ بِالْمَعْرُوفِ وَانْهَ عَنِ الْمُنكَرِ وَاصْبِرْ عَلَىٰ مَا أَصَابَكَ ۖ إِنَّ ذَٰلِكَ مِنْ عَزْمِ الْأُمُورِ ( 17 )
"O my son! establish regular prayer, enjoin what is just, and forbid what is wrong: and bear with patient constancy whatever betide thee; for this is firmness (of purpose) in (the conduct of) affairs.
وَلَا تُصَعِّرْ خَدَّكَ لِلنَّاسِ وَلَا تَمْشِ فِي الْأَرْضِ مَرَحًا ۖ إِنَّ اللَّهَ لَا يُحِبُّ كُلَّ مُخْتَالٍ فَخُورٍ ( 18 )
"And swell not thy cheek (for pride) at men, nor walk in insolence through the earth; for Allah loveth not any arrogant boaster.
وَاقْصِدْ فِي مَشْيِكَ وَاغْضُضْ مِن صَوْتِكَ ۚ إِنَّ أَنكَرَ الْأَصْوَاتِ لَصَوْتُ الْحَمِيرِ ( 19 )
"And be moderate in thy pace, and lower thy voice; for the harshest of sounds without doubt is the braying of the ass."
أَلَمْ تَرَوْا أَنَّ اللَّهَ سَخَّرَ لَكُم مَّا فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَمَا فِي الْأَرْضِ وَأَسْبَغَ عَلَيْكُمْ نِعَمَهُ ظَاهِرَةً وَبَاطِنَةً ۗ وَمِنَ النَّاسِ مَن يُجَادِلُ فِي اللَّهِ بِغَيْرِ عِلْمٍ وَلَا هُدًى وَلَا كِتَابٍ مُّنِيرٍ ( 20 )
Do ye not see that Allah has subjected to your (use) all things in the heavens and on earth, and has made his bounties flow to you in exceeding measure, (both) seen and unseen? Yet there are among men those who dispute about Allah, without knowledge and without guidance, and without a Book to enlighten them!
وَإِذَا قِيلَ لَهُمُ اتَّبِعُوا مَا أَنزَلَ اللَّهُ قَالُوا بَلْ نَتَّبِعُ مَا وَجَدْنَا عَلَيْهِ آبَاءَنَا ۚ أَوَلَوْ كَانَ الشَّيْطَانُ يَدْعُوهُمْ إِلَىٰ عَذَابِ السَّعِيرِ ( 21 )
When they are told to follow the (Revelation) that Allah has sent down, they say: "Nay, we shall follow the ways that we found our fathers (following). "What! even if it is Satan beckoning them to the Penalty of the (Blazing) Fire?
وَمَن يُسْلِمْ وَجْهَهُ إِلَى اللَّهِ وَهُوَ مُحْسِنٌ فَقَدِ اسْتَمْسَكَ بِالْعُرْوَةِ الْوُثْقَىٰ ۗ وَإِلَى اللَّهِ عَاقِبَةُ الْأُمُورِ ( 22 )
Whoever submits his whole self to Allah, and is a doer of good, has grasped indeed the most trustworthy hand-hold: and with Allah rests the End and Decision of (all) affairs.
وَمَن كَفَرَ فَلَا يَحْزُنكَ كُفْرُهُ ۚ إِلَيْنَا مَرْجِعُهُمْ فَنُنَبِّئُهُم بِمَا عَمِلُوا ۚ إِنَّ اللَّهَ عَلِيمٌ بِذَاتِ الصُّدُورِ ( 23 )
But if any reject Faith, let not his rejection grieve thee: to Us is their return, and We shall tell them the truth of their deeds: for Allah knows well all that is in (men's) hearts.
نُمَتِّعُهُمْ قَلِيلًا ثُمَّ نَضْطَرُّهُمْ إِلَىٰ عَذَابٍ غَلِيظٍ ( 24 )
We grant them their pleasure for a little while: in the end shall We drive them to a chastisement unrelenting.
وَلَئِن سَأَلْتَهُم مَّنْ خَلَقَ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضَ لَيَقُولُنَّ اللَّهُ ۚ قُلِ الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ ۚ بَلْ أَكْثَرُهُمْ لَا يَعْلَمُونَ ( 25 )
If thou ask them, who it is that created the heavens and the earth. They will certainly say, "Allah". Say: "Praise be to Allah!" But most of them understand not.
لِلَّهِ مَا فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ ۚ إِنَّ اللَّهَ هُوَ الْغَنِيُّ الْحَمِيدُ ( 26 )
To Allah belong all things in heaven and earth: verily Allah is He (that is) free of all wants, worthy of all praise.
وَلَوْ أَنَّمَا فِي الْأَرْضِ مِن شَجَرَةٍ أَقْلَامٌ وَالْبَحْرُ يَمُدُّهُ مِن بَعْدِهِ سَبْعَةُ أَبْحُرٍ مَّا نَفِدَتْ كَلِمَاتُ اللَّهِ ۗ إِنَّ اللَّهَ عَزِيزٌ حَكِيمٌ ( 27 )
And if all the trees on earth were pens and the ocean (were ink), with seven oceans behind it to add to its (supply), yet would not the words of Allah be exhausted (in the writing): for Allah is Exalted in Power, full of Wisdom.
مَّا خَلْقُكُمْ وَلَا بَعْثُكُمْ إِلَّا كَنَفْسٍ وَاحِدَةٍ ۗ إِنَّ اللَّهَ سَمِيعٌ بَصِيرٌ ( 28 )
And your creation or your resurrection is in no wise but as an individual soul: for Allah is He Who hears and sees (all things).
أَلَمْ تَرَ أَنَّ اللَّهَ يُولِجُ اللَّيْلَ فِي النَّهَارِ وَيُولِجُ النَّهَارَ فِي اللَّيْلِ وَسَخَّرَ الشَّمْسَ وَالْقَمَرَ كُلٌّ يَجْرِي إِلَىٰ أَجَلٍ مُّسَمًّى وَأَنَّ اللَّهَ بِمَا تَعْمَلُونَ خَبِيرٌ ( 29 )
Seest thou not that Allah merges Night into Day and he merges Day into Night; that He has subjected the sun, and the moon (to his Law), each running its course for a term appointed; and that Allah is well-acquainted with all that ye do?
ذَٰلِكَ بِأَنَّ اللَّهَ هُوَ الْحَقُّ وَأَنَّ مَا يَدْعُونَ مِن دُونِهِ الْبَاطِلُ وَأَنَّ اللَّهَ هُوَ الْعَلِيُّ الْكَبِيرُ ( 30 )
That is because Allah is the (only) Reality, and because whatever else they invoke besides Him is Falsehood; and because Allah,- He is the Most High, Most Great.
أَلَمْ تَرَ أَنَّ الْفُلْكَ تَجْرِي فِي الْبَحْرِ بِنِعْمَتِ اللَّهِ لِيُرِيَكُم مِّنْ آيَاتِهِ ۚ إِنَّ فِي ذَٰلِكَ لَآيَاتٍ لِّكُلِّ صَبَّارٍ شَكُورٍ ( 31 )
Seest thou not that the ships sail through the ocean by the Grace of Allah?- that He may show you of His Signs? Verily in this are Signs for all who constantly persevere and give thanks.
وَإِذَا غَشِيَهُم مَّوْجٌ كَالظُّلَلِ دَعَوُا اللَّهَ مُخْلِصِينَ لَهُ الدِّينَ فَلَمَّا نَجَّاهُمْ إِلَى الْبَرِّ فَمِنْهُم مُّقْتَصِدٌ ۚ وَمَا يَجْحَدُ بِآيَاتِنَا إِلَّا كُلُّ خَتَّارٍ كَفُورٍ ( 32 )
When a wave covers them like the canopy (of clouds), they call to Allah, offering Him sincere devotion. But when He has delivered them safely to land, there are among them those that halt between (right and wrong). But none reject Our Signs except only a perfidious ungrateful (wretch)!
يَا أَيُّهَا النَّاسُ اتَّقُوا رَبَّكُمْ وَاخْشَوْا يَوْمًا لَّا يَجْزِي وَالِدٌ عَن وَلَدِهِ وَلَا مَوْلُودٌ هُوَ جَازٍ عَن وَالِدِهِ شَيْئًا ۚ إِنَّ وَعْدَ اللَّهِ حَقٌّ ۖ فَلَا تَغُرَّنَّكُمُ الْحَيَاةُ الدُّنْيَا وَلَا يَغُرَّنَّكُم بِاللَّهِ الْغَرُورُ ( 33 )
O mankind! do your duty to your Lord, and fear (the coming of) a Day when no father can avail aught for his son, nor a son avail aught for his father. Verily, the promise of Allah is true: let not then this present life deceive you, nor let the chief Deceiver deceive you about Allah.
إِنَّ اللَّهَ عِندَهُ عِلْمُ السَّاعَةِ وَيُنَزِّلُ الْغَيْثَ وَيَعْلَمُ مَا فِي الْأَرْحَامِ ۖ وَمَا تَدْرِي نَفْسٌ مَّاذَا تَكْسِبُ غَدًا ۖ وَمَا تَدْرِي نَفْسٌ بِأَيِّ أَرْضٍ تَمُوتُ ۚ إِنَّ اللَّهَ عَلِيمٌ خَبِيرٌ ( 34 )
Verily the knowledge of the Hour is with Allah (alone). It is He Who sends down rain, and He Who knows what is in the wombs. Nor does any one know what it is that he will earn on the morrow: Nor does any one know in what land he is to die. Verily with Allah is full knowledge and He is acquainted (with all things).
Random Books
Tafsir Surat Al-Kahf (Chapter – 18) The Tafsir of Surat Al-Kahf (Chapter – 18), Which was revealed in Makkah, What has been mentioned about the Virtues of this Surah and the first and last ten Ayat, which provide protection from the Dajjal.
Formation : Imam Ibn Kathir
Reveiwers : Muhammad AbdulRaoof
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/314958
Download :
Saudi Arabia in 100 Questions Most of those who come to Saudi Arabia either as visitors or workers are often awe-struck at the vast development all over the country. They admit that their image of Saudi society was very different before they arrived and lived in it. "Saudi Arabia in 100 Questions" aims at presenting simple and comprehensive answers for many questions that may be raised by others about Saudi Arabia. The answers to the questions in this book were formulated in a simple way reflecting the various political, economic, cultural and social aspects of life in Saudi Arabia. This will make this book an important reference that facilitates information and cultural communication between KSA and other countries and people.
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/324622
Download :
30 Lessons For Those Who Fast In relation to fasting, this book contains the most pertinent Qur'anic verses, authentic ahadith, delightful poetry and touching advice. It is therefore, a book for the righteous when they meet for pleasant conversations. It is also a gift for wayfarers when they break their journeys for rest, a treasure for those who share mutual love and respect - For Ramadan is indeed the noblest month and its days are the sweetest days.
Formation : Aaed ibn Abdullah al-Qarni
Reveiwers : Muhammad AbdulRaoof
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/320535
Download :
The Book of Fasting A summary of the rulings, etiquette and Sunnah of fasting.
Formation : Muhammad Bin Ibrahim Al-Tuwajre
Reveiwers : Muhammad AbdulRaoof
Translators : Mahmoud Reda Morad Abu Romaisah
From issues : A website Islamic Library www.islamicbook.ws
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/330818
Download :
The Islamic View of Jesus (Peace Be Upon Him) The Islamic View of Jesus (Peace Be Upon Him), How did the Quran Narrated the stories of the messengers and prophets from Adam to Muhammad, and the Quran had explained in detail the story of Jesus peace be up on him, In the Light of Holy Quran and Sunnah.
Formation : Imam Ibn Kathir
Source : http://www.islamhouse.com/p/204500
Download :
Choose language
Choose Sorah
1- Al-Fatihah ( The Opening )
2- Al-Baqarah ( The Cow )
3- Al-Imran ( The Famiy of Imran )
4- An-Nisa ( The Women )
5- Al-Maidah ( The Table spread with Food )
6- Al-An'am ( The Cattle )
7- Al-A'raf (The Heights )
8- Al-Anfal ( The Spoils of War )
9- At-Taubah ( The Repentance )
10- Yunus ( Jonah )
11- Hud
12- Yusuf (Joseph )
13- Ar-Ra'd ( The Thunder )
14- Ibrahim ( Abraham )
15- Al-Hijr ( The Rocky Tract )
16- An-Nahl ( The Bees )
17- Al-Isra ( The Night Journey )
18- Al-Kahf ( The Cave )
19- Maryam ( Mary )
20- Taha
21- Al-Anbiya ( The Prophets )
22- Al-Hajj ( The Pilgrimage )
23- Al-Mu'minoon ( The Believers )
24- An-Noor ( The Light )
25- Al-Furqan (The Criterion )
26- Ash-Shuara ( The Poets )
27- An-Naml (The Ants )
28- Al-Qasas ( The Stories )
29- Al-Ankaboot ( The Spider )
30- Ar-Room ( The Romans )
31- Luqman
32- As-Sajdah ( The Prostration )
33- Al-Ahzab ( The Combined Forces )
34- Saba ( Sheba )
35- Fatir ( The Orignator )
36- Ya-seen
37- As-Saaffat ( Those Ranges in Ranks )
38- Sad ( The Letter Sad )
39- Az-Zumar ( The Groups )
40- Ghafir ( The Forgiver God )
41- Fussilat ( Explained in Detail )
42- Ash-Shura (Consultation )
43- Az-Zukhruf ( The Gold Adornment )
44- Ad-Dukhan ( The Smoke )
45- Al-Jathiya ( Crouching )
46- Al-Ahqaf ( The Curved Sand-hills )
47- Muhammad
48- Al-Fath ( The Victory )
49- Al-Hujurat ( The Dwellings )
50- Qaf ( The Letter Qaf )
51- Adh-Dhariyat ( The Wind that Scatter )
52- At-Tur ( The Mount )
53- An-Najm ( The Star )
54- Al-Qamar ( The Moon )
55- Ar-Rahman ( The Most Graciouse )
56- Al-Waqi'ah ( The Event )
57- Al-Hadid ( The Iron )
58- Al-Mujadilah ( She That Disputeth )
59- Al-Hashr ( The Gathering )
60- Al-Mumtahanah ( The Woman to be examined )
61- As-Saff ( The Row )
62- Al-Jumu'ah ( Friday )
63- Al-Munafiqoon ( The Hypocrites )
64- At-Taghabun ( Mutual Loss & Gain )
65- At-Talaq ( The Divorce )
66- At-Tahrim ( The Prohibition )
67- Al-Mulk ( Dominion )
68- Al-Qalam ( The Pen )
69- Al-Haaqqah ( The Inevitable )
70- Al-Ma'arij (The Ways of Ascent )
71- Nooh
72- Al-Jinn ( The Jinn )
73- Al-Muzzammil (The One wrapped in Garments)
74- Al-Muddaththir ( The One Enveloped )
75- Al-Qiyamah ( The Resurrection )
76- Al-Insan ( Man )
77- Al-Mursalat ( Those sent forth )
78- An-Naba' ( The Great News )
79- An-Nazi'at ( Those who Pull Out )
80- Abasa ( He frowned )
81- At-Takwir ( The Overthrowing )
82- Al-Infitar ( The Cleaving )
83- Al-Mutaffifin (Those Who Deal in Fraud)
84- Al-Inshiqaq (The Splitting Asunder)
85- Al-Burooj ( The Big Stars )
86- At-Tariq ( The Night-Comer )
87- Al-A'la ( The Most High )
88- Al-Ghashiya ( The Overwhelming )
89- Al-Fajr ( The Dawn )
90- Al-Balad ( The City )
91- Ash-Shams ( The Sun )
92- Al-Layl ( The Night )
93- Ad-Dhuha ( The Forenoon )
94- As-Sharh ( The Opening Forth)
95- At-Tin ( The Fig )
96- Al-'alaq ( The Clot )
97- Al-Qadr ( The Night of Decree )
98- Al-Bayyinah ( The Clear Evidence )
99- Az-Zalzalah ( The Earthquake )
100- Al-'adiyat ( Those That Run )
101- Al-Qari'ah ( The Striking Hour )
102- At-Takathur ( The piling Up )
103- Al-Asr ( The Time )
104- Al-Humazah ( The Slanderer )
105- Al-Fil ( The Elephant )
106- Quraish
107- Al-Ma'un ( Small Kindnesses )
108- Al-Kauther ( A River in Paradise)
109- Al-Kafiroon ( The Disbelievers )
110- An-Nasr ( The Help )
111- Al-Masad ( The Palm Fibre )
112- Al-Ikhlas ( Sincerity )
113- Al-Falaq ( The Daybreak )
114- An-Nas ( Mankind )
Random Books
The Truth About The Original Sin
Islam is The Religion of Peace
The Ruling on Magic and Fortunetelling
Are we Forced or do we have a Free Will
The Key to Happiness
Choose tafseer
Tafseer Ibn Khatheer
Tafseer Aljlalin
Tafseer Altabari
Tafseer Alqurtubi
Tafseer Alsaadi
Participate
Powered by Quran For All version 1.2
